HEK2393T cells were cultured in DMEM containing 10% fetal bovine serum, penicillin-streptomycin, and 2 mM l-glutamine (all from Invitrogen). Cells were transiently transfected using Lipofectamine 2000 (Invitrogen). A total of 4 μg of DNA was added to each well of a 6-well plate. Slap in pRRL_scC_Slap_IRESeGFP_W was transfected at 2 μg/well, and 2 μg of pEGFP-C1 was added to keep the total amount of DNA constant. pRK plasmids containing GluN1 or GluN2A cDNAs downstream of a pCMV promoter were transfected at 1 μg/well each, and either 2 μg of pEGFP-C1 was added to keep the total amount of DNA constant (NMDA treatments with or without activation) or 2 μg of Slap–pRRL_scC_Slap_IRESeGFP_W was added in the all-plasmids treatment. Cells were left to express for ca. 22 h before being treated for 10 min with PSS (140 mM NaCl, 1.4 mM CaCl2, 5.4 mM KCl, 1.2 mM NaH2PO4, 21 mM glucose, 26 mM NaHCO3, pH 7.4) with or without the addition of 1 mM NMDA and 50 μM glycine (both from Sigma) (NMDA activation treatment). Bortezomib was used as a proteasome inhibitor at a final concentration of 0.01 mg/ml (Millenium Science). Following treatment, cells either were used to calculate cell death or were lysed for protein extraction. Proteins were extracted in 25 mM HEPES (pH 7.5)–150 mM NaCl–1% NP-40–10 mM MgCl2–1 mM EDTA–2% glycerol supplemented with protease inhibitors (Roche). The protein concentration of the protein extract was determined by Bradford's protein assay, and equal amounts were loaded on a 10% precast gel (Invitrogen) for the detection of GluN1 using Western blot analysis. For protein normalization, a background band of 14 kDa detected by the antibody was used and the relative amount of GluN1 was calculated against this band using the Gel Analyzer tool from ImageJ. Cell death experiments were performed largely as described previously (38). Transfected and activated cells from different treatments were incubated in fresh media for 6 h prior to assessing cell death using the trypan blue (Sigma) assay, where the exclusion of the reagent from living cells was used to distinguish between dead and living cells in both the attached and the floating cells. Cell counts on a hemocytometer were performed either after addition of trypan blue to media from each well or after trypsinizing the cells in the well. All data points represent the combined results for floating and attached cells for each treatment and correspond to the means ± standard errors of the means (SEM) of the results from three experiments each performed in triplicate.
