Term placental tissues from control normotensive women and preeclamptic women were obtained at the time of cesarean section. The placental tissues were immediately placed in RNAlater (Qiagen, Foster City, CA) solution and snap-frozen at −80°C. Midtrimester human placental tissues were obtained from Advanced Bioscience Resources (Alameda, CA) in accordance with the Donors Anatomical Gift Act of the State of Texas. Protocols were approved by the Institutional Review Board of the University of Texas Southwestern Medical Center at Dallas. Cytotrophoblasts were isolated from midgestation human placenta and placed in primary culture, as described in detail previously (5, 32). Briefly, the placental tissues were washed with Hanks' balanced salt solution (pH 7.4) (Life Technologies, Grand Island, NY) and then finely minced and digested with 0.125% trypsin in Hanks' balanced salt solution at 37°C for 20 min. At the end of the digestion, the supernatant was collected, layered over 10 ml of serum, and then briefly centrifuged at 1,000 × g. The resulting pellet was suspended in Dulbecco's modified Eagle's medium (DMEM) (Life Technologies), filtered, and layered over a Percoll gradient (70% to 5%). This procedure was repeated three times with the pellet from the original trypsin digestion. The gradients were centrifuged at 1,200 × g for 20 min at room temperature, and cells in the middle layer (density, 1.045 to 1.062 g/ml) were collected, washed, and counted. The cells were then resuspended in DMEM supplemented with 10% fetal bovine serum (FBS) and 1.2% antibiotic/antimycotic solution (Life Technologies) and plated at a density of 2 × 106 cells per 35-mm culture dish or 15 × 106 cells per 100-mm dish. The cells were cultured overnight; the medium was then changed to DMEM containing 2% FBS. For expression of miRNA mimics or miR-19b inhibitor, freshly isolated cytotrophoblasts were transfected with either 10 nM miRNA mimic (Qiagen), LNA hsa-miR-19 family inhibitor (Exiqon, Woburn, MA), LNA scrambled control (Exiqon), or AllStars Negative control (Qiagen) using the HiPerfect transfection reagent (Qiagen). Cells were harvested for RNA and protein analysis 24, 48, and 72 h posttransfection.
