Mouse neural stem cells were isolated from 6-week-old WT or Wnt7a−/− brains (Jackson Laboratory) using methods modified from published protocols (24, 26). Specifically, adult mouse forebrains containing the hippocampal dentate gyri and subventricular zones were sliced into 400-μm sections. Brain tissues were dissociated using the MACS neural dissociation kit (Miltenyi). Dissociated cells were centrifuged in a 10% Percoll solution in phosphate-buffered saline (PBS). Cells were collected and plated in neurobasal medium containing 2% B27, 1% glutamine, 20 ng/ml epithelial growth factor (EGF), and fibroblast growth factor 2 (FGF2). Newly formed neurospheres were dissociated into single cells using trypsin and transferred into Dulbecco's modified Eagle medium (DMEM)–F-12 medium supplemented with N2, 20 ng/ml EGF and FGF2, and 5 μg/ml heparin and cultured in this medium for further passages. BrdU labeling was performed to monitor neural stem cell proliferation by treating neural stem cells with 10 μM BrdU for 1 h. The BrdU-treated cells were HCl treated, followed by BrdU antibody staining. Clonal analysis was performed by dissociating neurospheres into single cells and plating them at one cell per well in 96-well plates. These cells were cultured for 2 weeks to allow primary neurosphere formation. The primary neurospheres were dissociated into single cells and seeded at 50 cells per well in 96-well plates to allow secondary sphere formation. Data presented are secondary sphere size and formation rate. For differentiation assays, neural stem cells were dissociated into single cells and cultured in DMEM–F-12 medium, supplemented with N2, 1 μM retinoic acid (RA), and 0.5% fetal bovine serum (FBS). Three days after differentiation, cells were immunostained for Tuj1, GFAP, and O4. The Tuj1-positive, GFAP-positive, or O4-positive cells were counted and calculated for the percentage of Tuj1-positive, GFAP-positive, or O4-positive cells. More than 5,000 cells were counted for each experiment. To measure dendritic length and complexity of differentiated neurons, neural stem cells were differentiated in the same differentiation medium for 5 days. Dendritic length was measured using NIH Image J. Dendritic complexity was measured using Sholl analysis plugged into NIH Image J.
